Editing and Inserting Data
==========================

The main way that we add or change information in Bauble is by using
the editors.  Each basic type of data has its own editor.  For example
there is a Family editor, a Genus editor, an Accession editor, etc.

To create a new record click on the Insert menu on the menubar and
then select the type of record your would like to create.  This will
open a new blank editor for the type.

To edit an existing record in the database right click on an item in
the search results and select Edit from the popup menu.  This will
open an editor that will allow you to change the values on the record
that you selected.

Most types also have children which you can add by right clicking on
the parent and selecting "Add ???..." on the context menu.  For
example you can add a Genus to a Family by right clicking on a Family
and selecting "Add genus".


Family
------
The Family editor allows you to change a botanical family.

The *Family* field on the editor will change the name of the family.

The *Qualifier* field will change the family qualifier.  The value can
either be *sensu lato*, *sensu stricto* or nothing.

*Synonyms* allow you to add other families that are synonyms with the
family you are currently editing.  To add a new synonyms type in a
family name in the entry.  You must select a family name from the list
of completions.  Once you have selcted a family name that you want to
add as a synonym click on the Add button next to the synonym list and
it will add the selected synonym to the list.  To remove a synonym
select the synonym from the list and click on the Remove button.

The *Notes* field can contain any additional information about this family.  

To cancel your changes without saving then click on the *Cancel* button.

To save the family you are working on then click *OK*.

To save the family you are working on add a genus to it then click on
the *OK and Add Genera* button.

To add another family when you are finished editing the current one
click on the *Next* button on the bottom.  This will save the current
family and open a new blank family editor.




Genus
-----
The Genus editor.


Species
-------
The Species editor.

Accessions
----------

The Accession editor allows us to add an accession to a species.  In
Bauble an acsession represents a group of plants or clones.  The
accession would refer maybe a group of seed or cuttings from a
species.  A plant would be an individual from that accesssion, e.g. a
specific plant in a specific location.

Accession Source
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The source of the accessions lets you add more information about where
this accession came from.  At the moment the type of the source can be
either a Collection or a Donation.


Collection
""""""""""
A Collection.


Donation
""""""""
A Donation.


Plant
-----
The Plant editor.


Locations
---------
The Location editor



